---
title: "Enhancing Grid Resilience and Economic Efficiency through spatial-temporal Arbitrage of Mobile Energy Storage"
excerpt: "Final Year Dissertation"
collection: portfolio
---
**This is my Final Year Dissertation with the Supervision of Professor Dipti Srinivasan and Dr. Can Berk Saner, mainly focusing on a scheduling and routing problem of mobile energy storage system to improve the resilience of the smart grids and arbitrage of MESS in the urban areas**

In the study of low-carbon distributed energy storage systems, with the large-scale application of sustainable energy, the power grid is transforming into a decentralized network. As more and more distributed energy resources (DERs) are integrated, the existing Fixed Energy Storage Systems (FESS) cannot meet the current storage demands. Current stationary storage systems (FESS) are underutilized and limited in adaptability to fluctuating demand and grid disturbances. Energy storage systems are expected to meet ever-increasing demands for flexibility, including time shift, congestion relief, and ramping. However, these demands are distributed and sporadic, changing over time and space, which means that if the system is installed in a fixed location, its utilization rate will typically be low. Inefficient energy storage and dispatch further affect the economic benefits during normal operations and hinder rapid dispatch during emergencies, thereby impeding the progress towards decarbonization.

MESS (Mobile Energy Storage Systems), as a more flexible and economical energy storage system, has recently become a research focus due to its role in load restoration during contingencies. Mobile energy storage systems (MESS) offer a flexible, on-demand service that can alleviate congestion, increase resilience, and enhance profitability. Additionally, the retirement of MESS does not mean the complete elimination of the devices, but rather opens up more potential in the battery market. Considering the economic benefits of MESS during normal grid operations and its enhanced resilience in emergencies, MESS is currently a preferred choice for building smart power networks.

In ongoing and future research, the research team focuses on designing MESS models for both normal and emergency scenarios, aiming at optimal profitability in normal conditions and the best grid resilience during emergencies. The Resilience Model is applied to the pre-positioning and sizing of MESS based on hazard forecasting and risk management. Key factors include distance, response time, and energy availability in emergencies. The resilience model is employed to address the issues of the scheduling of MESS during the contingencies considering more realistic factors that may influence during the events compared with the existing realistic model built in the current researches. The arbitrage model is a spatiotemporal optimization model determining the best routes for MESS to maximize profitability based on locational marginal prices (LMPs), congestion patterns, and renewable energy availability. This research will also discuss about the scenarios of profitability during normal operations as the utilization and penetration rate of the sustainable energies varies among places. The models will be validated using the selected test system to demonstrate the resilience-enhancing capability of MESS in faulted networks as well as its profitability in normal networks.

[Literature Review.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/17311510/Literature.Review.pdf)
